README.md, before:

# DailyLOG
</br>

## 21st Feb 2026

## Goal
Starting FastAPI to build foundation for advanced backend and AI work.

## What I Did Today
- Set up GitHub repo for daily logging


</br>

## 22nd Feb 2026

## Goal 
Learning ALong the documentation of FastAPI and freecodecamp course of FastAPI

## What I am learning today 

```python
from fastapi import FastAPI
app = FastAPI()

@app.get("/")
def read_root():
    return {"Hello": "World"}

@app.get("/items/{item_id}")
def read_item(item_id: int , q : str| None = None):
    return {"item_id": item_id,"q":q}

```

This is a basic endpoint creation , First we import FastAPI and then create an app .
Then we can see that there are two endpoints.

The first endpoint (@app.get("/")) responds to the root URL and 
returns a simple JSON message. Which in this case is Hello World

The second endpoint (@app.get("/items/{item_id}")) takes an item_id 
from the URL path (must be an integer) and an optional query 
parameter q, then returns both in the response.



```python

from fastapi import FastAPI
from pydantic import BaseModel

app = FastAPI()

class Item(BaseModel):
    name: str
    description: str | None = None
    price: float
    tax: float | None = None

@app.get("/")
def read_root():
    return {"Hello": "World"}

@app.get("/items/{item_id}")
def read_item(item_id: int, q : str| None = None):
    return {"item_id": item_id,"q":q}

@app.put("/items/{item_id}")
def update_item(item_id: int, item: Item):
    return {"item_name": item.name,"item_id": item_id}

```

In this step we made put method which is used for updating already existing data . We imported pydantic . WHat pydantic actually does is that it checks if the right type of data is going into the the given plac , for eg if i set the type of variable x to be int , andI try to give a string for x then pydantic will give an error . This helps us in making sure that the data is correct .

Commit message:

Enhance README with Pydantic explanation and testing steps
Clarified the explanation of Pydantic's role in data validation and added an analogy for better understanding. Included testing steps for the API documentation and validation errors.

README.md, after:

# DailyLOG
</br>

## 21st Feb 2026

## Goal
Starting FastAPI to build foundation for advanced backend and AI work.

## What I Did Today
- Set up GitHub repo for daily logging


</br>

## 22nd Feb 2026

## Goal 
Learning ALong the documentation of FastAPI and freecodecamp course of FastAPI

## What I am learning today 

```python
from fastapi import FastAPI
app = FastAPI()

@app.get("/")
def read_root():
    return {"Hello": "World"}

@app.get("/items/{item_id}")
def read_item(item_id: int , q : str| None = None):
    return {"item_id": item_id,"q":q}

```

This is a basic endpoint creation , First we import FastAPI and then create an app .
Then we can see that there are two endpoints.

The first endpoint (@app.get("/")) responds to the root URL and 
returns a simple JSON message. Which in this case is Hello World

The second endpoint (@app.get("/items/{item_id}")) takes an item_id 
from the URL path (must be an integer) and an optional query 
parameter q, then returns both in the response.



```python

from fastapi import FastAPI
from pydantic import BaseModel

app = FastAPI()

class Item(BaseModel):
    name: str
    description: str | None = None
    price: float
    tax: float | None = None

@app.get("/")
def read_root():
    return {"Hello": "World"}

@app.get("/items/{item_id}")
def read_item(item_id: int, q : str| None = None):
    return {"item_id": item_id,"q":q}

@app.put("/items/{item_id}")
def update_item(item_id: int, item: Item):
    return {"item_name": item.name,"item_id": item_id}

```

- In this step we made put method which is used for updating already existing data . We imported pydantic . WHat pydantic actually does is that it checks if the right type of data is going into the the given place , for eg if i set the type of variable x to be int , andI try to give a string for x then pydantic will give an error . This helps us in making sure that the data is correct . 

<br>

- Pydantic is like a bouncer at a club. <br>
You create a BaseModel class that says "here's what valid data looks like" — for example, an Item must have a name (text), a price (number), etc.
When someone sends data to your API, Pydantic checks it at the door:

<br>

 - If the data matches your rules → let it through to your function <br>
 If the data is wrong (price is text instead of a number) → reject it with a clear error message, your function never even runs
 
<br>

## What I tried/tested
- Visited http://localhost:8000/docs and saw the auto-generated API documentation
- Tested the PUT endpoint using the interactive docs
- Tried sending wrong data types to see Pydantic validation errors
